====Friday 28 December 2018 14:39====
_The purpose of a decision journal is to prevent hindsight bias and to collect accurate and honest feedback. It will illuminate the edges of your circle of competence._

===Pipes and Glue:===
Build a web app that provides analysis of crypto and finance. This will provide an interesting and useful service to people I may want to work with and allow me to learn how to crete and deploy a web app with automated components. I will do this incrementally.

*1. What do I expect to happen?*<br>
- I intend to build a data pipline and web application that sources and serves interesting metrics on cryptocurrency networks and finance. 
- I will do this in small phases where each phase is a stand alone achievement. If I do not complete a phase I will still be able to leverage the previous phases fully. This will create a minimum amount of 'wasted time' if something doesn't work out.
- Each phase will compound into a large and valuable project. 
 
- I expect that I will use my time and energies more efficiently if I have a structured plan about what I want to build. 
- The project needs to meet several goals at the same time, so that time and effort is spent as efficiently as possible. 
- There are several goals to achieve at once, ranging from pragmatic and risk averse (short term) to moon shot dreams with catapult/unlocking potential (long term).

_Pragmatic goals:_<br>
- Demonstrate my skills to potential employers if I'm forced to find another job in 2019.
- Practice specialist skills that I am not using in my current role.
- Enjoy the benefits of creating something and writing. This is inspring and creates a feeling of satisfaction.

_Moonshots and catapults:_<br>
- Become a 'full stack' data scientist with fewer weak points and blind spots
- Create a side project that might become revenue generating
- Make me more desirable to employers and therefore unlock a higher salary or a job with better benefits (flexibility, work from home, autonomy/self*direction, holidays, etc.)
 
*2. Why do I expect it to happen?*<br>
Based on previous experience writing blog posts and tackling technical challenges incrementally, I am confident that a large and impenetrable problem can be solved in many small steps. Writing about the steps is a fundamental part of gaining understanding as it allows me to reflect and structure my thoughts, crystalising what I know and providing opportunity to see complimentary or second-order benefits. 

*3. How am I feeling about the situation emotionally and physically? (Tired, anxious, excited, curious, confident, gritty, 'least bad option', hungry, thirstry)*<br>
    - Glad to have a plan, 
    - Confident that the benefits will be worth the effort
    - Confident that the reasoning based on experience is valid. 
    - Apprehensive about finding the neccesary time to focus on a problem.

I'm hungry and probaly dehydrated. Feeling a bit sick from having eaten too much chocolate.

*4. Time of day*<br>
Mid afternoon

*5. The situation or context:*<br>
I need to focus on my long term goals and professional development in the midst of lots of immediate demands on my time and attention, both at work and at home. 
I expect a lot of challenges with time and energy management when my son arrives in January and therefore I need a good plan. 
It's possible that Blockport will not survice through 2019 and I need to ensure a financially smooth transition into what ever happens after.

*6. Problem statement or problem frame:*<br>
How do I learn the skills I want or need to whilst balancing immediate demands on my time and energy

*7. Variables governing the situation:*<br>
    - Access to my plan 
    - Access to information 
    - How much time I have
    - How much energy I have
    - How much positive momentum the project has 
    - My ability to solve technical problems

*8. Complications or compexity as I see it:*<br>
    - I need to identify the most efficent path to success, and then find good resources that teach me how to use that path.
    - Finding good online resources will be key to progressing fast. 
    - Working for small amounts of time in a focussed and energetic way will also be crucial.

*9. Alternatives that were seriously considered and why they were rejected:*<br>
Alternatives were rejected because they didnt combine enough different goals, and the compounding benefits werent as great. I need to tie together different existing skills, gain new complimentary skills and create something that looks useful to others.

This project isn't mapped out yet. I will map out only 1 phase at a time. This will keep the planning and pressure low, and allow the project to take shape organically, following what is interesting.

*10. Explain the range of outcomes:* <br>
Range with 0 being the worst and 10 the best:<br>
`0.` Flop, 
    - No outcome, 
    - Some wasted  time. 
    - Probably due to some early road block that I couldn't get around <br>
`10.` Great success: 
    - I have a pipe line and web app that a distinct group of users highly value and that is ranked highly by google. 
    - I have a series of blog posts detailing how I built the app. 
    - My expertise is unequestionable and my reputation is outstanding. 
    - I choose who I work with.

*11. Explain your expectations, with reasoning and weighted probabilities of each outcome. Degree of confidence is important.*<br>
    - `0.05` My expectation is success, and success is ultimately down to me (notwithstanding some unexpected, unpredictable event).
    - `0.65` The most likely outcome is partical success: 
        - a few blog posts, some meaningful progress at the start, but not a finished web app that is useful. 
        - This can be protected against by designing each phase to be small and self-contained, and getting positive feedback frequently. 
        - Writing blog posts about my work will allow me to 'see' my work, even if the app is not yet above water. This will provide encouragement and allow for reflection.
    - `0.3` Flop:
        - No blog posts
        - No learning
        - Cant get project off the ground because of some problem I cant solve, probably due to lack of energy or time. In this case I should break the problem into smaller parts, and keep notes on how I'm trying to solve it. Phase 1 could be split into several smaller phases (1a, 1b etc) if necessary.

*12. If you havent eaten or drunk something recently, do so now.*<br>
I just ate two bowls of rice and salad.

*13. Expected second and third order outcomes:*<br>
Difficult to predict, but I believe that:
    - Following my interests and doing work solely because it is interesting is a good strategy. In the past it has unlocked many great doors. Coincidentally this was reinforced by reading [[http://paulgraham.com/startupideas.html |How to get startup ideas]] by Paul Graham.
    - Being able to create a web app, being able to construct a data pipeline, and glue/pipe different technologies together is extremely versatile and valuable.
    - I need to keep my finance/accounting skills sharp and publicise them, else the chartered accountancy qualification might not be leveraged. 
    - I expect to learn a lot of valuable skills.

*14. What is the opportunity cost:*<br>
Time with my children and Ritsya.

*15. Worst case scenario, why is this ok:*<br>
I get stuck and dont achieve anything - this will be immediately discouraging and therefore I wont waste too much time on it.
Or I don't write blog posts about each stage, and no one knows my skills. This is not ok because I wont see the benefits of the effort.

*16. What unique advantage or insight do I have?*<br>
My background and portfolio of skills and experiences. This project is specifically designed to leverage what I already know, build on my time-tested interests, and create competencies in complimentary areas.

*17. Who can I speak to about this?*<br>
Different parts of the project will require speaking to different people. For the unix glue, I hope the devs at work will be able to help. 

*18. Am I the best person to make this decision?*<br>
Yep.

*19. What does this look like in 5 weeks, 5 months, 5 years?*<br>
    - 5 weeks: A BTC node is running. UTXOs are being queried. I have a multiphase plan for the project. 
    - 5 months: I have a web app, probably flash, serving streaming analytics to users which is valuable. I have a series of blogposts published about the process.
    - 5 years: I am a senior data scientist/analyst/engineer, or a founder. I am a crypto financial data specialist. I choose where I work.
