====Tuesday 8 January 2019 14:17====
==Decision Journal==
_The purpose of a decision journal is to prevent hindsight bias and to collect accurate and honest feedback. It will illuminate the edges of your circle of competence._
=== Should I do some machine learning tutorials and projects, instead of 'Pipes & Glue'? ===

*1. Problem statement or frame:*<br>
It will be easier to get a (new) job as a data scientist if I can demonstrate proficiency with various flavours of machine learning and other data science techniques. 'Pipes and Glue' would see me doing infrastructure and crypto related tasks first, possibly delaying a successful application in some (non crypto) company.

*2. What do I expect to happen?*<br>
My expectation is the Blockports security token sale will not raise enough and therefore in Q3 I will no longer be able to work at Blockport.

*3. Why do I expect it to happen?*<br>
*4. How am I feeling about the situation emotionally and physically? (Tired, anxious, excited, curious, confident, gritty, 'least bad option', hungry, thirstry)*<br>
*5. Time of day*<br>
*6. The situation or context:*<br>
*7. Variables governing the situation:*<br>
*8. Complications or compexity as I see it:*<br>
*9. Alternatives that were seriously considered and why they were rejected:*<br>
*10. Explain the range of outcomes:*<br>
*11. Explain your expectations, with reasoning and weighted probabilities of each outcome. Degree of confidence is important.*<br>
*12. If you havent eaten or drunk something recently, do so now.*<br>
*13. Expected second and third order outcomes:*<br>
*14. What is the opportunity cost:*<br>
*15. Worst case scenario, why is this ok:*<br>
*16. What unique advantage or insight do I have?*<br>
*17. Who can I speak to about this?*<br>
*18. Am I the best person to make this decision?*<br>
*19. What does this look like in 5 weeks, 5 months, 5 years?*<br>

