%template index 

== Pipes and Glue ==
    # [[Pipes and Glue - Phase1| Phase 1]]

== Notes ==
<div class="items">
<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Data Science ===
</div>
* [[https://towardsdatascience.com/mastering-the-data-science-interview-15f9c0a558a7|Mastering the Data Science Interview Loop]]
* [[https://towardsdatascience.com/data-science-interview-guide-4ee9f5dc778|Data Science Interview Guide]]
* [[https://towardsdatascience.com/devops-for-data-scientists-taming-the-unicorn-6410843990de|DevOps for Data Scientists: Taming the Unicorn]]
* [[https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2018/06/comprehensive-data-science-machine-learning-interview-guide/|Comprehensive Data Science & Machine Learning Interview Guide]]
* [[https://towardsdatascience.com/learn-enough-docker-to-be-useful-b7ba70caeb4b | Learn enough Docker to be useful ]]
* [[ https://towardsdatascience.com/@ben_lau93 | Machine learning in python]]
* [[https://www.quantopian.com/lectures?utm_source=All+Active+Members&utm_campaign=0a1f9a01cc-2017_march_monthly&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_7cca55778a-0a1f9a01cc-108952113|quantopian course]]
* [[https://lectures.quantecon.org/py/|quantcon lectures]]
* [[https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html|algo visualisation]]

</div>



<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Learn  ===
</div>
* [[https://hacker-tools.github.io/|Hacker Tools]]
* machine learning examples - 1 post each
    * [[machine learning: week 1]]
* docker - enough to be useful
* kubernetes - after docker
* buckets - aws or GCP - send data there and get it back
* buckets 2 - get it using an API
* flask web app - get data using an api and display it
* jenkins
* d3
* great shell scripts like the raspberry pi uses
* amazon data science or data engineering training resources
* [[https://twitter.com/thetokenanalyst/status/1088089854964105216?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1088089854964105216&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.bitmex.com%2Fthe-mystery-of-the-bitcoin-nonce-pattern%2F|Nonce pattern]]
* [[https://javascript.info/comparison|JavaScript tutorial]]
* [[https://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/pages/book.html#toc|TDD]]
</div>



<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Lightning ===
</div>
# https://github.com/bcongdon/awesome-lightning-network/blob/master/readme.md#example-projects
# https://github.com/bcongdon/awesome-lightning-network/blob/master/readme.md
# https://github.com/lightninglabs/neutrino
# https://blog.lightning.engineering/posts/2018/05/30/routing.html
# https://blog.lightning.engineering/announcement/2018/09/10/lightning-app.html
# https://blog.lightning.engineering/posts/2018/05/02/lightning-ux.html
</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Dev Tools ===
</div>
* [[https://blog.jez.io/noteworthy-dotfile-hacks/|dotfile hacks]]
* [[Terminal.app]]
* [[strftime]]
* [[FZF]]
* [[Git tutorial]]
* [[Git]]
* [[shell]]
* [[Shell vs Terminal]]
* [[VirtualEnv]]
* [[Docker]]
* [[tmux]]
* [[PostrgreSQL]]
* [[APIs]]
</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Media ===
</div>
* [[Startup Ideas]]
* [[http://www.paulgraham.com/13sentences.html|13 Sentences]]
* [[https://www.1843magazine.com/features/a-rockers-guide-to-management|Management styles]]
* [[Writing|How to write a book]]
* [[Mental Models]]
* [[Negotiation]]
* [[Yudkowsky Ambition scale]]
* [[https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18853966|Best HackerNews threads]] 
* [[https://getpolarized.io/2019/01/08/top-pdfs-of-2018-hackernews.html|500 Top PDFs posted to Hacker News in 2018]]
* https://postmake.io/  
* https://playbook.samaltman.com/
* https://www.statisticsdonewrong.com/data-analysis.html 
* 
</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Python ===
</div>
* [[print vars]]
* [[Bokeh]]
* [[Django setup]] 
* [[Django: urls-views-templates]]
* [[Accept incoming network connections]]
</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Raspberry Pi ===
</div>
* [[Verification]]
* [[Networking]]
* [[Disable journals for MacOS HFSPlus]]

</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Unix-likes ===
</div>
* [[Grep]]
* [[regex]]
* [[crontab]]
* [[sed]]
* [[jSON]]
* [[ls]]
* [[openssl]]
* [[Unix]]
</div>

<div class="item">
<div class="item__heading">
=== Vi ===
</div>
* [[Profiling]]
* [[Vim]]
* [[VimWiki]] 
* [[Surround]]
* [[Sessions]]
* [[Rainbows]]
* [[https://medium.com/@MauroMorales/profiling-vim-e142280a91ae|Profiling]]
* [[Marks]]
* [[fugitive]]

</div>

</div>
== Thoughts ==
- Do the people you care about love you back?
- [[https://bronnieware.com/blog/regrets-of-the-dying/|Regrets of the dying]]
- [[https://blog.samaltman.com/the-days-are-long-but-the-decades-are-short|Long days, short decades]]
- All great careers, to some degree, become sales jobs. You have to evangelize your plans to customers, prospective employees, the press, investors, etc. This requires an inspiring vision, strong communication skills, some degree of charisma, and evidence of execution ability.
- My other big sales tip is to show up in person whenever it’s important. When I was first starting out, I was always willing to get on a plane. It was frequently unnecessary, but three times it led to career-making turning points for me that otherwise would have gone the other way.
- [[https://drive.google.com/open?id=1wkJ6Ruh2IiR-caT-PS3n5Yt5VKcmIsVhuQwjgqK7030|How to start a startup]]
- [[How to be successful]]
- Assume nobody is going to help you but that nobody is going to stop you either
- Money is the fuel
- Philosophical poverty
- Lets talk about the end. my current self, existing now, is to be seen in the context of my end, and my beginning.
- “You follow the rules of war for you–not your enemy. You fight by rules to keep your humanity.” - https://www.globalo.com/history-wwii-charlie-brown-franz-stigler-incident/
- https://psmag.com/social-justice/nazi-interrogator-revealed-value-kindness-84747
- Why blogging is a good idea - http://andrewchen.co/professional-blogging/
- "Mr Chakravarty says a combination of experience in investment banking and digital execution helped him to raise $5m within five weeks of leaving his job at HSBC. Bankers he saw on the fundraising circuit without execution experience were raising less, he says." - https://www.ft.com/content/a41924e0-0327-11e9-99df-6183d3002ee1
- While some large companies have data scientists who only devise an algorithm or a proof of concept, and then leave the implementation strictly to the engineers, other companies expect data scientists to code their own algorithms and deploy them into production. Still others give their data scientists access to a data warehouse and expect them to produce analytics for executives to review. https://blog.insightdatascience.com/data-scientists-and-engineers-advice-i-would-give-my-younger-self-16d1df492904?mc_cid=e9c5c919f7&mc_eid=52c2845b40
- [[https://gowers.wordpress.com/2018/12/22/how-craig-barton-wishes-hed-taught-maths/#more-6435|How to teach math]]
