=Vim=

To make an html file properly indented,
gg=G

Delete first 2 chars from each line: %normal 2x

Organise tabs:
Firsttab -> tabmove 0 
Lasttab -> tabmove

Nerd tree make root -> C
Recursively close all children -> X

Syntastic
:lopen - open error window
:SyntasticToggleMode - doesn’t auto check. Use :SyntasticCheck to run a check when in passive mode.


Find and replace
:%s/foo/bar/g		Find all foo and replace with bar
:%s/foo/bar/gc	with confirmation 


Navigation
) 			sentence
}			paragraph


Buffers
:b#			previously viewed buffer
:ls			list all buffers
:bd			delete a buffer from the buffer list
:bn 		next buffer
:bp			previous buffer
:new 		new buffer (empty file)


Tabs
gt 				next tab.
gT 				previous tab
#gt 			go to #th tab.
:tabclose		close tab
:q				close tab

Splits
vnew   - new vertical pane with blank new file in it
vsp - new vertical pane with copy of the open file in it
:vertical resize 80
:vertical resize +5
crrl+w r swap 

ctrl+w q		close split
:q				close split
ctrl+o			close all other splits

ctrl+w >/<		increase/decrease width by # number of lines
ctrl+w +/- 	increase/decrease height by # number of lines

ctrl+w _		max height for current split (can use count to set specific height)
ctrl+w |		max width for current split (can use count to set specific width)
ctrl+w =		normalise split sizes

Syntactic
Use `:SyntasticCheck` to manually check right now. Use `:Errors` to open the |location-list| window, and `:lclose` to close it. You can clear the error
list with `:SyntasticReset`, and you can use `:SyntasticToggleMode` to switch between active (checking on writing the buffer) and passive (manual) checking.

You don't have to switch focus to the |location-list| window to jump to the different errors. Vim provides several built-in commands for this, for example `:lnext` and `:lprevious

help 

* Type :h patt then press Ctrl-D to list all topics that contain "patt". 
* Type :h patt then press Tab to scroll through the topics that start with "patt". 
* If you have set the 'wildmenu' option (e.g. by using :set wildmenu), then :h pattfollowed by <Tab> opens a menu on the statusline, with all help topics containing "patt". You can select any item in the menu with the arrow keys or more presses of the <Tab> key to fill in the rest of your command line. 

Links:
* Enter :h to open the main help page. 
* Type /quick to search for "quick" (should find the quickref link). 
* Press Ctrl-] to follow the link (jump to the quickref topic). 
* After browsing the quickref topic, press Ctrl-T to go back to the previous topic. 
    * You can also press Ctrl-O to jump to older locations, or Ctrl-I to jump to newer locations.
