=VIMWIKI=

:VimwikiTOC    Create or update the Table of Contents for the current wiki file.
:VimwikiCheckLinks  Search through all wiki files and check if the targets of all wiki links
    and links to external files actually exist.  Check also if all wiki files
    are reachable from the index file.  The results are shown in the quickfix
    window.

<leader>vw			open index file 
<leader>wt			open index file in new tab

<leader>wi			open diary index
<leader>w,i			update diary index
<leader>w,w		open diary entry for today
<leader>tj			insert template
<leader>w,t			open diary wiki-file for today in a new tab
<leader>w,y		open diary wiki-file for yesterday


,whh		convert to html and open it in the browser
,wd			delete the wiki page you are in
,wr			rename the wiki page you are in

+			create and/or decorate links
=			add header level
-			remove header level


gll 			                    Increase the level of a list item.
glh                     Decrease the level of a list item.
glr                     Renumber list items if the cursor is on a numbered list item
gl*                     Make a list item out of a normal line or change the symbol of the current item to *.
gl#                     Make a list item out of a normal line or change the symbol of the current item to #.
gl-, gl1, etc
gqq                     Format table. If you made some changes to a table without swapping insert/normal modes this command will reformat it.

<C-Up>                 	Open the previous day's diary link if available.
<C-Down>                 Open the next day's diary link if available.

<A-Left>               	Move current table column to the left.
<A-Right>               	Move current table column to the right.

<C-Space>          	Toggle checkbox of a list item on/off.
<C-T>                   	Increase the level of a list item.
<C-D>                   	Decrease the level of a list item.
<C-L><C-J>              Change the symbol of the current list item to the next
<C-L><C-K>             Change the symbol of the current list item to the prev
<C-L><C-M>            Create/remove a symbol from a list item.

'vih' 	to select a section segment with its contents or 
'dih' 	to delete it or 
'yih' 	to yank it or 
'cah' 	to change it.



<Enter> 	 		Follow/Create wiki link
<C-S-CR>		Follow/create wiki link in new tab

<Backspace>		Go back to parent(previous) wiki link
<Tab> 			Find next wiki link
<Shift-Tab>		Find previous wiki link

:VimwikiAll2HTML	convert all pages to html. Make css file if it doesn’t exist. 

MARKDOWN

= Header1 =
== Header2 ==
=== Header3 ===
Etc

  *bold text*
  _italic text_
  ~~strikeout text~~
  `code (no syntax) text`
  super^script^
  sub,,script,,

[[wiki link]]
[[projects/Important Project 1]]
[[wiki link|description]]
[[/index]]

* bullet list item 1
* bullet list item 2
	a) numbered list item 1
	b) numbered list item 2
		etc. all kinds.

{{{python
def greet(s):
    print("Hello, " + s)
}}}

 | Year | Temperature (low) | Temperature (high) |
 |------|-------------------|--------------------|
 | 1900 | -10               | 25                 |
 | 1910 | -15               | 30                 |
 | 1920 | -10               | 32                 |




